OK so let's talk about pages.
Pages are one of the it's one of the sections that is definitely required.
It's one of the sections that I in my experience it's much easier to handle when you've gone and done
wireframe first.
So again if this is something that you struggle with please do go to the end of the section and look
at the wire framing section.
You do not need to write your spec requirement your spec sheet first then the wireframe.
You can always do it the other way around.
That does end up helping quite a bit with this especially people who are not who are new to this but
the whole idea behind pages is that we're going to list out every single page that we can think of in
the application.
There's a lot of room for error here.
So if you forget about a page it's typically something that will come up during your first discussion
with a developer or with a designer or whoever you're outsourcing or contracting with.
So don't worry if you forget about something.
But also at this point you know we've already written our section on scope.
So there's a good chance that you'll catch most of it because of your get to a point where you're stuck.
You can always just scroll up and see all the functions you listed before.
Think about it and think about what page you would go on and a lot of times you'll run into a function
that you actually haven't listed a page for.
So the way that I always do it is just list it out by page name and then a description description honestly
is just one or two sentences.
We don't need to get into depth with it really all it is is that when a developer or someone giving
you an estimate or is building off of this looks at it they can look and mentally see every single page
that you have just to have a better idea of how big this application is.
It helps them organize in their head and in their estimation what exactly is going to go into it.
Now one thing that's important to note is that when you're doing an application functionality is one
thing and it takes certain time to be able to say let someone log in or log out.
But also there are multiple ways of handling that.
Now you could have one page or they log in and it all happens on one page.
You could have it on multiple pages.
The more pages you have the more time it takes someone to build.
So if you ever have the option of choosing fewer pages or more pages I usually decide to pick fewer
pages.
Now there's a there's obviously exceptions to this.
You know if you have a user base that you want to kind of walk all along your process if it's someone
that you if your users are people that you think need a little more hand-holding then more pages can
be better.
It's easier for them to fall that process but usually I say simpler is better.
It's not going to balloon your suit or Balloon your application to have multiple pages for the same
thing.
But it does it end up shaving off a little at a time if you can reduce the page number.
So again you only need to write one to two sentences describe each page name.
It is just so that they know what you're referring to.
We're not listing how we don't need to go and capture the functions and then list them the page it doesn't
really matter.
So here are some questions that I've written that help people fill this section out.
And this is kind of made for people the people that we work with and what they always seem to forget.
So I always suggest that when you do go and write your pages section come back to this lecture look
at the questions ask yourself the questions and see if you fit any of these questions and if you're
missing anything.
So the first question is what is the first page the user sees and this is something that people frequently
forget about in an app in a mobile application.
It could be a landing page in a web site.
It could also be its own landing page it could be like a pitch page.
It could be that page that kind of introduces with the concept is it only has one button.
So keep in mind what does what does it look like.
Does it look like any other random web site.
If that's the case then you don't necessarily need to make a separate page for the first page.
But if it has a landing page aspect to it or a splash page make sure that you list that out OK.
Do you have any Sign-Up pages.
No it's something that people always kind of forget about.
Not only do people have to log in if you have an account system but they also have to register.
And in both those cases you need to have pages that handle say they log in and get their password wrong.
That's a separate page if they need to register.
That's a separate page even There's even a page that says no confirmation we use signed up please check
your email for verification.
So make sure that you're handling that because virtually every application is going to have this unless
you're just building a Web site that's informational In that case you don't really have sign up pages.
So can they edit their account.
That's another one I see people miss all the time.
You usually in any application have an account button and you go up and you click at the top right where
you can go and change your password change your information sometimes change a profile photo things
like that.
So make sure that you are facilitating that if you have accounts.
Now if you have accounts are signing in and creating profiles and you don't have that that's going to
be a problem your users are going to have some difficulty and you're going to have them e-mailing you
saying hey I need to change my information or I lost my password or whatever it is.
And that's actually not worth it.
I mean if you think you're saving money by leaving this section out don't do it because actually you're
going to lose time and time is money when everybody kind of avalanches on top of you asking you how
do I do these basic functions.
OK.
Do you have an about us or a contact form that is very common you know if you're a startup it's very
common to give information about yourself.
It kind of lends credibility to whatever you're doing it helps people understand that you're a small
team or a big team or helps them get to know you.
This is kind of par for the course and it's gotten to the point where if people don't do it it's looks
weird.
So you want to make sure that if that's something you want to display then absolutely do it.
Not necessarily a mandatory page but keep in mind this is something that a lot of people forget about.
Also similar contact form.
How do they contact you.
You know if you're trying to run a large operation maybe you need to have a contact form that has a
decision tree or they have to you know change information first and then message you where they have
to say for instance do they have an account or they don't have a account or what are they asking you
a question about or who do they need to contact and then contact you.
Or it's just a page I mean that's the most common thing I see is it's a page and it has a contact form
you put name e-mail address subject and maybe and then your message ID and maybe one of those captured
boxes.
So do you have that do you want people to be able to contact you easily.
Chances are you usually do some common pages that you should not forget about.
A lot of people use how it works.
That is something that's helpful.
Now it's not absolutely crucial to the success of your application but it's something that is helpful
for users to understand what's going on what do you do.
How do I pay you money.
And if you don't have that you might have a confused user base.
Again not completely mandatory but very helpful.
Same thing with an FAA.
Q Do you need an FAA.
Q Do you anticipate people being confused about what you do if you're trying to start a business build
a web application that is rather complicated.
It's very helpful to have an FAA queue.
Pricing is another thing if you're building an online software.
It's very nice to have a pricing page.
That's something that you will get actually a lot of flack for if you trying to sell something you don't
ever see the price.
OK.
Do you have a separate page for every function or are some of them small enough for one page.
That one's pretty easy the way that I kind of like to think of it is are you making an informational
Web site that just tells information about who you are what you do.
If that's the case then you typically will have separate pages for everything you have a page that talks
about this or a page that does this or a page that displays this.
Now if you're building an application or someone creates an account logs in and has sort of a portal
feel to it then chances are most of your functions are going to fit into a couple pages.
You don't want a page for every single thing they can do.
So in that case just kind of think about what you need and what would be overburdening your user what
is too much.
Now imagine you are a user and you're using your application.
Do you really want to go to a separate tab or a separate page every time you want to say send a message
or check some information or read information.
Usually that's kind of over done.
And this is one of those things that it helps if you do your wireframe first because when you go and
start wireframe ing you start to realize you have a lot of space on the page.
And so there's a lot of areas where you can fit in that functionality that we went over previously and
you don't need to have a separate tab up in your head.
And I wrote this out here because this is incredibly important.
All refer to your function list when you get stuck.
And if you have wireframe to refer to those as well so you don't you're functionless and your wireframe.
This section should be very very easy.
Okay.
And I'll show you kind of how I would go about doing it with the fake application that we just made.
So this is a mobile application keep in mind so I would say you know my first page would be.
And I typically like to use conventions like this I'll just label them one through however many pages.
So if they don't know the page name like the specific title you used for because they can get kind of
obscure and they have lots of pages it can just refer to the number and that's really quite helpful.
So I would say the landing page landing page with Sign-Up screen with sign up on and remember.
So now we look down at the question do they need to register register button.
OK so that's the first page.
And then what I'll do is I'll just give a just a quick description of it.
First Pidge users use after opening the application for the first time lets them log in or count splays
loke called the lovely Lulu.
OK there you go.
So that's page number one.
Now again try to visualize this as a user.
Now what would happen if I signed up I signed up I would go to the main screen that we described before
if I did not sign up and had to register them I'd have to go to a registration page so we'll make sure
that we have a registration page striation page.
OK.
And then in the scription I'm just going to give a limited effort explanation of what are the form the
form information that I have to give so collect information to a user account and then we could say
have the option to fill out basic mation about themselves.
And the option to create the account with Facebook I'm going to break my rule and add a third sentence
which is fine because it's important.
And then I would say something along the lines of must capture location.
Remember this is a location based mobile application.
OK.
And then I would say we'll call this the main screen because once they get in to the page they're going
to have the main screen where they have to do things like look at their matches message their matches
etc..
So you can also see where they can set their profiles so we'll just call out the main screen.
Again it doesn't really matter what you name these things it's all that matters is your description
makes sense.
So in the main screen will say this is the main screen where the user sees their daily matches and can
access their account page.
OK.
And we had a couple other pages and guys honestly if you if you get the point.
Move along.
They don't need to watch me do this entire thing.
You just I understand that a lot of people are so new to this that they would really like to see me
go from point one to point to 100.
If you get it you can always just move along move on to the next lecture where we start talking about
the user description.
So after the main screen we now kind of recognize that there's a fork in the road.
They get a look at other people's matching profiles or they can change their account information.
So I will say Account Information page Pidge account information page we would say user can view their
basic information change
questionnaire answers and change their password.
OK.
And this is why this is so helpful to go in this process like you're a user because I've just uncovered
something that I've missed.
Right now it is this change questionnaire answers.
OK.
Well I forgot to add that is a page that would actually be its own page.
So we now have to decide where that goes is that after the registration page has that been between the
landing page and the registration page I guess it doesn't really matter.
We will just say it goes here to update all the numbers.
So we'll say questionnaire screens again.
We don't need if it's three screens of all the same functionality.
It doesn't really matter we don't need to make three separate sections of it.
And the questionnaires we have.
And then we can say oh well we're asking questions they answer the questions this one through 10 how
many questions did it ask.
Well good thing we have a function section oh three screens of questions total of 25 questions.
Great.
OK.
So user goes through three screens of questions totaling 25 questions or questions or one through ten
answers I say submit button at the bottom for each page.
OK great.
So that one's done.
Now we can go back to where we were.
We will say this is the now we've seen our matches we can go and look at their profile.
OK.
So profile page of matches.
Then I'll say the description user can view the file of each match and we can say and see you know X
Y Z information it's up to you.
You could describe whatever information you want to add or you'd say oh they see their profile photo
and they see a ranking.
I think we said that it shows all their questions and they get to see a percentage.
I think that's what we were saying so lists so we'll say like display's profile photo and Web site area
to Provo area and lists and lists.
There are question answers with that percentage.
OK.
And a lot of you who are a little more adept at noticing details we've uncovered a lot of functionality
questions.
You know if you've noticed that.
So like when I'm writing this out there's a lot of things that should be going to your head of what
else is included in this.
When I say display's profile photo what else is included.
What happens when I click the profile photo does it zoom in does it become a light box when it displays
area.
What else does that mean.
Does the display area and then say the distance between where I am and where they are.
Is it the area they signed up with is it the area that they're at right now.
These are all things that you'll need to specify.
You typically do these in the function section.
So what I can do is I can go.
I should probably specify this and then go up to the functions included and change it.
Now if you forget some of this stuff don't worry.
The best way of remedying that is to go back through your sections and reread these as you read them
you'll get more questions.
And as you make wireframe you'll start to give yourself more answers that all start to become a lot
more clear as you go and you do more of this stuff.
Also when you do talk to your developer you're going to want to go over this together or your designer
and they'll notice things immediately because they have to build this literally.
And so if there's anything missing they will ask you it's just generally a good idea that you get all
this stuff done up front and not later because then later it can become an issue.
We're going to cover in this course.
How do you deal with the extra work so it's not a big deal but obviously it's it's an ideal.
So we want to make sure that we get it all done up front and then we say lists or questions of the percentage
again that was not really very specific right like what exactly does that look like what does it mean.
Is it does it look exactly like the form that the person submitted.
These are all things that you'll decide later on.
OK.
And then the last thing and this is all kind of implied and we didn't ever put this into the functions.
But now that I realize it we should go back and probably put this in the function.
So what we can say is message screen will go down.
Screen where they can message each other.
I think that we originally said that the functionality that it would connect to you by email.
Keep in mind guys we're not actually building this so if you change your mind and you want to have a
message screen we can change a message screen if you wanted to do it the other way around.
Then I think it was it just connects you with an email so we could say that but if I wanted to build
a message screen I could say it's a screen or you message each other.
But then I wouldn't I need to specify what is the screen roughly look like does it look like I message
and what's app.
Can I send a Mowgli's can I send photographs.
How did those photographs display.
Does it display when I've read their message.
Does it display when it's been sent.
What happens when these things fail.
Now a good developer will look at this and say this is the the functionality said that I would suggest
because there's a package out there that I can install for you and it makes it very simple but it's
always good that you check into this and you think about it as much as possible.
So we use a screen with the message other I'll go back and be true to the functionality we said before
and what this essentially entails would be we go back to the last page and describe the button the message
button message button at the bottom that populates e-mail worst dating app ever.
But it doesn't matter we're just going over this to give you guys the gist of what we're doing.
OK great.
So when you go to make your page ascription make sure to pull up this lecture look at this right here
make sure that you cover all your bases make sure that you have your function list done before you do
this.
Otherwise it's going to be way too complicated.
And if you've already on your wireframe That's great actually saves you time and time.
Wireframe also if you kind of get burnt out on this stuff doing just text wireframe can be very very.
I find them fun because it's visual.
It's like you're painting a picture but except the pictures are a very ugly web site.
I would suggest go to that if you get to a point or you're kind of stuck.
Do you have any questions just post in the group discussion and I'll get to them so the next lecture.